---
title: A Video A Day - Day 3
date: 2020-07-30 00:00:00
description: The Advice That Changed Satya Nadella's Life
featured_image: '/images/archive/satya.jpg'
---

---

#### The Advice That Changed Satya Nadella's Life

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/rKCL_MEXqJo" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
<br>
DR : You've now had to follow Bill Gates and Steve Ballmer, two legendary figures. Did you feel at that time that you're really ready for the job following those legends or were you saying I can't do a better job than they did? 

SN : The best advice I got from both Bill and Steve I think helped me a lot. Because their clear message was don't try to be like us, don't even bother to sort of say oh I'm succeeding these people. Just be your own. In fact, I remember very distinctly even during the interview process. This is  for, the board was conducting. They asked me "Hey do you want to be the CEO?" And I said only if you want me to be the CEO. And the feedback I got was "Well, but people who want to be CEOs are like I want to be CEO." I said "Look, that's not me." and I remembered when I'm going and talking to Steve and he says "Yeah, just be yourself. It's too late to change." 

DR : Since you've been the CEO three and a half years, the stock is up about I guess it's about a hundred twenty percent when you go to the your annual shareholder meetings and you get a standing ovation for what you've done? 

SN : No, I get a lot of people to asking me "Hey look, come home and fix my computer." 

DR : You are a native of India. What part of India? 

SN : I was born in Hyderabad which is in the central part of India.

DR : And so growing up your parents doted on you? I assume. 

SN : Yeah, they did. 

DR : And they told you you were gonna be prime minister or something important in the country? What did they want you to be?

SN : They just wanted me to stop playing cricket and take my studies a little more seriously.

DR : Now you were an avid cricket player? 

SN : Yes. That is correct. I was in love with it.

DR :And when did you realize you weren't going to be a professional cricket player.

SN : It's pretty soon. Quickly I realized that at best I would play, you know, what is considered perhaps first-class cricket in India. but I was not going to go much further than that. But you know that's where my dad, in fact I remember one of the big decisions that changed my life was you know my entire outlook was so provincial when I look back at it. Richards,  hey I want to stay in Hyderabad maybe study economics in political science and work for a bank that was about the extent of my ambition. 

SN : He looks at me he says "What are you doing? You gotta get out of this place." And so he pushed me out to get to an engineering school and that pretty much of course you know define the trajectory afterwards.

DR : Your father was a member of the the senior civil service which was an important position I guess India . Is that right? 

SN : Yeah my dad was a very different guy than me in terms of let me say his academic promise. So it is always humorous which you look at my report cards and he says oh I don't understand how anybody can have these kind of marks. But the nice thing
about it was he would say it in such endearing ways that he'd never made me feel bad.

You mean the marks weren't high enough or 

SN : weren't not high enough

they weren't high enough 

SN : yeah 

the guy had never met an exam he didn't ace

SN : As he would say and so it was astounding to me that he would have a son who couldn't ace an exam now 

DR : Your father's still alive?

SN : Yes 

DR : He must be very proud of what you've achieved 

SN : Not enough 

DR : So you went to college in India and then you decided to get a graduate school in the United States. So where did you go? 

SN : I went University of Wisconsin in Milwaukee for my computer. That's when I switched from electrical engineering to computer science.

DR : But when you're in India University of wisconsin-milwaukee can't be that well-known in India. So how did you happen to wind up there?

SN : I've never been to west to Bombay quite frankly and then I showed up in Milwaukee. 

DR : Did you have a winter coat?

SN : That was my first very valued possession in life. Winter coat which is very important. Unfortunately I'd picked up this bad habit of smoking in India in college. And the one nice thing about going to school in Milwaukee is as a smoker you have to go out in the winter and smoke. And that one winter in Milwaukee cured me of my smoking habit.

DR : So you've got a job after you graduated at Sun Microsystems. And what was your job there? 

SN : I was a software developer.

DR : And then you got recruited to go to another company called Microsoft and that was in 1992. 

SN : That's right. 

So but you also had applied to go the University of Chicago School of Business. So how did you decide to do one or the other?

SN : Quite Frankly, I was very committed to saying oh I want to go to the business school. Maybe who knows, maybe even go to Wall Street .That's what sort of my ..

DR : The highest calling of mankind 

SN : Say is David Rubenstein.-> ??? 

DR : And I thought wow maybe that's what I should do and then somewhere along the lines I started talking to people and I said hey why would you do that? You were in tech. And you should really come back. It was an amazing time because Windows NT which eventually became a server business and what-have-you was just starting out. And and I subsequently went and did some combination of part-time and other courses and actually finish my MBA which I find stunning in my life.

SN : You're commuting in other words you were working and then on weekends you're commuting to university in Chicago and that must have taken a lot of energy to do both. 

DR : It was crazy.



